Title: Preface To The Third Edition

----

Documenttext:

# Preface To The Third Edition.

It has been, for some years past, impossible to obtain the *Essay on the Modifications of the Clouds* in its separate form, the last edition, published in 1832, having been long exhausted. It appeared therefore desirable to bring out a new one. For, although the other scientific works by the same Author continue to be of value, this small treatise cannot but possess the highest interest of any, as it embodies that part of his labours which gave him so high a place among Meteorologists.

From the time when this nomenclature was first suggested (about 1803), it has been universally adopted by scientific men, and, indeed, by all writers.

The illustrations which appear with this edition are the result of an endeavour to reproduce a series of water-colour sketches from nature, made (with one exception) by the Author,† and annotated with the remarks which accompany them with the view of exemplifying some of the most usual forms of the Modifications.
They therefore possess a peculiar interest, even though much more perfect representations are to be found elsewhere.††

We must, however, warn the young student of Meteorology (as the Author himself would have done, had he superintended this edition) against limiting his conceptions of the Modifications to the particular *forms* here represented; a correct comprehension of the subject is only to be obtained by a habitual observation of Nature — to quote the words of Goethe — “Wenn man die Lehre Howard’s, beim Beobachten wohl nutzen will, so muss man die von ihm bezeichneten Unterschiede fest im Auge behalten, und sich nicht irre machen lassen wenn gewisse schwankende Erscheinungen vorkommen; man übe sich vielmehr dieselben auf die Hauptrubriken zurück zu führen.”

“If any one wishes to make a good use of Howard's teaching to guide his observations, he must keep firmly fixed before his eyes the distinctions that the latter has laid down, and not allow himself to be led astray by the occurrence of certain indistinct appearances; but practise himself in referring these to the main rules under which they come.”

This Essay at its first appearance attracted the notice of the poet above quoted, who took a great interest in the subject. His remarks on the system, and correspondence with the Author, are pubhshed††† at some length in his works, together with a Poem which so graphically points out the peculiar beauties of each class of clouds, that we think it will not be out of place to append it here, for the benefit of those who may not before have fallen in with it.

We refrain from inserting a translation, although some have been published, because the simple beauty of the original is for the most part completely lost in the attempt to render it in English verse. 

W. Dillworth Howard. 
Eliot Howard. 

Tottenham, November, 1864.

---
† The landscapes were by Mr. Kenyon. No. 2 is not by the same hand, haying been purchased as a good example of a Stratus doud, to complete the set
†† Two instances in very different styles of art will suffice, viz.: the beautifully engraved illustrations of Cirri, &c., by J. C. Armytage, in vol. v. of Ruskin’s “Modem Painters,” and the stereoscopic photographs of Mr. Wilson, of Aberdeen. 
††† Goethe’s Sämmtliche Werke, voI. xl. p. 311, &c., Cotta’s Edit. 1840. We may refer the reader who wishes for any biographical information respecting the Author to his letter to Goethe, in p. 342, &c.

----

Documentpart: frontmatter

----

Documenttype: preface

----

Documentrole: preface